---
layout: page
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started
Custom Mission development for InfiltrationEngine games is not a simple process. To create custom missions, you're given access to all the internal tooling and APIs used to develop official missions. As of right now, nobody has attempted to created a simplified mission builder on top of these tools, and it's unlikely one could be created without losing the flexibility that comes with the full API. What this means is there is a lot of information to learn to fully understand the engine and the mission development process.

Before getting started at all, you should have a baseline familiarity with the following:
## Github
Tooling and templates for mission creation are hosted on Github. Tooling is also updated as new features are added to the engine, and knowing how to track changes and read files like the [attribute map](https://github.com/MoonstoneSkies/InfiltrationEngine-Custom-Missions/blob/main/Plugins/src/SerializationTools/AttributesMap.lua) can give you additional insight into how the engine functions
## Lua Table Syntax
Custom missions **do not** require you to be familiar with lua as a whole. However, you do need to be able to modify one lua script, the MissionSetup file, in order to return a table of data the mission uses to function. Additionally, having programming experience (of any kind) may help you grasp certain engine concepts easier, like expression parsing
## Roblox Studio
You should know the basics of creating and modifying files in roblox studio, especially how to use parts to build maps.

# Official Plugins
## Serialization Tools
Serialization Tools are what's used to actually play your mission in game. After you've created your mission or made changes you want to test:
1. Open the Exporter plugin and hit Generate Code
2. Open the game, go into a custom mission lobby, and copy the code(s) into the loader

If you're already in a custom mission, you can hit `L` to bring up the loader and switch/update the mission you're playing.
The number of codes generated by this plugin depends on the size of your mission folder. To keep things simple and decrease mission iteration time, it's recommended to keep the map simplified while you're still making frequent changes to mission structure/NPCs/etc and go back to add extra props/details later.

## Infiltration Engine Tools
Infiltration Engine Tools cover a wide variety of miscellaneous tasks involved in mission development, like generating cells, adding barriers on top of props, modifying meadow maps for pathfinding. While none of these tools are strictly necessary (most of these tasks can be done by hand or by other dedicated plugins) they are **highly recommended**. See the Plugin Reference page for details about what each of these plugins does.

## Installing Plugins
1. Download a copy of the [InfiltrationEngine-Custom-Mission](https://github.com/MoonstoneSkies/InfiltrationEngine-Custom-Missions) repo and find `Plugins/InfiltrationEngineTools.rbxmx`, `Plugins/SerializationTools.rbxmx`, and `Templates.Props.rbxm` (or download these files individually)
2. Open Roblox Studio and open `Plugins > Plugins Folder`. This should open a folder on your file system
3. Copy `InfiltrationEngineTools.rbxmx` and `Plugins/SerializationTools.rbxmx` into this folder
4. Go to `Explorer > ReplicatedStorage`, right click, and click `Insert > Import Roblox Model`
5. Import `Templates/Props.rbxm` from the repo. You should see an `Assets` model under `ReplicatedStorage`, this is required by the Prop Preview plugin
5. Restart Roblox Studio. The new plugins should appear in the Plugins ribbon
6. Repeat these steps when you want to update plugins to the newest version

# Templates
Templates for official missions  and featured community missions are provided in the custom missions repo as well. While the documentation aims to provide simple examples, the templates provide fairly complex and comprehensive examples of how to make a full mission. Once you have a solid grasp on the fundamentals, you can look at how the templates implemented certain features to use similar things in your custom missions. There's also a set of standalone Sample files: These files are much simpler and exist to showcase specific engine features that aren't used by any official missions.